[Ragnar]
Previously onVikings...
Igor, I love you like a son.
If we don't kill him,
you will never be free.
No! [gasps]
If anyone steps foot
on my land, they will die!
Come! Ubbe! Away!
Come back!
[Ubbe] Get on the boat! Move!
I go now to join Bjorn
in Valhalla.
Gunnhild!
Let her be.
We have no idea where we are.
And we have no food.
The truth is that
we are probably going to die!
So, are you coming with me?
Where to?
We don't know what happened
there since Bjorn died.
Then we'll find out.
Ivar!
I love you.
You've changed.
["If I Had A Heart" playing]
[vocalizing]
-[horn blaring]
-[man] A ship in the harbor!
[man] Janus!
[chattering]
[horn blaring]
[man] Hurry! To the water!
[man] Here!
[horn blaring continues]
[woman] It's one ship!
What is it?
Uh, it's a Rus ship.
There's only a single ship.
Then escort it
into the harbor.
[Hvitserk] So, we're home.
What are you
thinking about, huh?
That this might be
a mistake, after all.
[man 1] Scum! Liar!
[crowd shouting]
[man 2]
You're a fool and a false god!
[woman]
You're a traitor and a coward!
[man 3] Spineless!
Scum!
[man 4] Traitor!
[man 5] Go back, you swine!
You pigs!
[man 6] Liar!
[crowd quiets]
Follow me.
I'll take you
to King Harald.
King Harald?
[breathing heavily]
All hail to you,
King Harald Finehair.
All hail.
My wife, Queen Ingrid.
Queen Ingrid.
I hope that
you will give safe passage
to the Rus sailors
that brought us here.
Of course.
We didn't expect to find you
here enthroned, King Harald.
And, for my part,
I [exhales] never thought
that my first visitors
would be you two.
The gods work
in mysterious ways.
They do, indeed,
Ivar, the Boneless.
What brought you back?
This is our home.
You were fighting
with the Rus.
To reclaim our home.
From your own brother.
Brothers fall out.
They may even end up
fighting on different sides.
You know that too well,
King Harald.
Many of the townsfolk
hate you.
As long as you remain here,
you will be in danger.
We are the legitimate sons
of Ragnar Lothbrok.
You can't tell me
that the people of Kattegat
don't still revere
and worship our father.
[Ivar] And if they're willing
to accept you as their king,
surely they'll be
willing to accept us
as your supporters.
If you truly
are my supporters.
[inhales and exhales deeply]
Your arrival may strengthen
my position here.
Make it more legitimate,
as you say.
I think
we should have a feast
to celebrate this new
and unexpected accord.
The sons of Ragnar
have returned home
to support
the new regime.
All is well with the world.
[chuckles]
Wouldn't you agree?
[woman coughing]
[exhales]
What are you doing?
It's not for me,
it's for my wife.
She's sick.
She needs some water.
I'm sorry.
We have to share
the water equally.
We couldn't make exceptions.
What if she dies?
I'm sorry.
There's no other way.
[boat creaking]
[indistinct chattering]
[chattering stops]
[man] There's no shame
to come back here.
[sniffs sharply]
Tonight...
we have much to celebrate.
Two of Ragnar's sons
have returned home.
They were free men,
they could have chosen
to go anywhere in our world
where their fame
would have guaranteed them
a warm welcome.
Instead,
they returned to Kattegat,
to their beginnings.
I can see that
many of you are not
in favor of their return.
[people jeering]
You have bitter memories.
You feel betrayed.
[people murmuring]
But let me remind you,
that the gods
always forgive each other.
Well, not always.
They couldn't forgive
Loki's murder of Balder,
Odin's son.
But the exception
proves the rule!
For the most parts,
gods, being human,
understands human nature.
They understand jealousy.
They understand ambition.
They understand how people
who love each other
can end up challenging
and sometimes
murdering those they love!
I did it myself.
I killed my own brother!
And I regret it every day!
Every day.
Ivar regrets
the way he ruled here.
He was young.
The responsibility
was too great
and he forgot
the lessons of his father.
And his brother, Hvitserk...
He never meant
to kill Lagertha.
How could he ever mean
to kill such a goddess!
[people shouting]
They have both
confessed their sorrows
and their mistakes.
And they have come here
to be judged
by their own people.
They are who they are,
but they are also
sons of Ragnar.
And we should be overjoyed
that they have decided
to come here
and share their future
with us.
[people mumble indistinctly]
So, tell us, Ivar,
is it true you're a god
like you told us?
[effort grunts]
[people gasping]
[laughs]
[all laughing]
[grunting]
[traditional music playing]
[Ivar] You did well.
Well, thank you.
I tried to speak the truth.
No one's really
interested in the truth.
On the contrary.
No. Hvitserk is right.
This has nothing to do
with the truth.
You're all used to having
power and influence,
but there can only be
one king here.
And in times of peace,
and if the Rus do not
intend to attack us again,
what will you all do?
You are men
who are easily bored.
Who crave excitements
and challenges.
What is left for you to do
except to fall out
and quarrel?
[laughing]
A good night?
A great night.
-Hail Ivar!
-Yes!
Hail Ivar!
-Hail Hvitserk!
-Hail Ragnar!
-[both laughing]
[metal clanking]
What is it now, huh?
I don't know.
[scoffs]
I don't know what to do.
[exhales]
What do you mean?
I don't think my destiny,
or yours,
lies here.
But then, on the other hand,
I have no idea
where I'm supposed to go.
It feels
-as if I'm in an open boat.
-[water splashing]
Lost at sea,
with no land in sight.
No purpose,
no meaning to my voyage.
Don't you ever feel the same?
I've been lost
for so long.
I wouldn't recognize
the alternative.
[scoffs]
[fire crackling]
[boat creaking]
Tell me, Othere,
what are your
earliest memories?
I don't remember anything
about my early life.
That's impossible.
Very well, then.
I hated everything
about my childhood.
I could not wait to grow up.
To be older.
To choose
who I wanted to be.
But you were Viking.
That's what you told us.
I told you so that
you would be happy.
You could know me.
Place me.
I don't need to be comforted.
Are you sure?
I am growing tired
of your games
and your refusal
to be honest.
I look around
and I see the truth...
Where we are,
what has become of us.
Don't tell me that
you're beginning
to lose your faith, Ubbe.
Not you.
Surely not you.
[sniffling]
[whimpers]
What happened?
He died in the night.
His mother told me
he'd been drinking sea water.
[crying]
May I give him this?
[sobs]
[sniffles]
[continues weeping]
[chanting in Latin]
There is so little food.
So little water.
That poor boy
is just the first of many.
I know.
[Ivar] I have been away,
O Ancient One.
[Seer] Oh, I have watched you.
Though blind, do you imagine
that I don't see?
[waves lapping]
I'm not sure,
I should have returned.
Harald is suspicious
that I have come
to overthrow him.
Perhaps I should,
since I despise the thought
of serving him.
[Seer chuckles]
Poor Ivar.
Connecting nothing
with nothing.
Think of your father...
Sat here,
dreaming his dreams...
of places beyond all this.
Don't you remember?
Then here is not my fate.
[Seer] I cannot advise you.
But I saw in your pocket
a possible answer
to your question.
Ivar, the Boneless.
[Hvitserk] My dear brother.
How the High One
must have celebrated
your arrival
in his Great Hall.
How the gods must have raised
their brimming horns
to salute Bjorn Ironside,
son of Ragnar.
When I join you,
there will be no celebrations.
What have I really done
in life, huh?
I was a drunk,
a profligate.
I abandoned Ubbe,
the brother I loved the most.
I killed Lagertha.
The only two women I've ever
loved both met miserable ends.
I never married,
never had any children.
[sniffles]
I follow Ivar around
like his shadow,
and I don't even know why.
The gods must despise me.
But you must know all about
this by now, Bjorn.
You must hear
their conversations,
their laughter.
Which is why a kind word
from you
would only lacerate my soul.
[Idun] Hvitserk, do not think
so unkindly of the gods.
[Hvitserk] Who are you?
Are you a ghost?
No. My name is Idun.
And I know all about you.
I will spend tonight with you,
if you desire it.
[indistinct chatter]
[Ivar] You have it made here.
[Harald] Yes. That's
what I thought.
I always imagined ruling
was my destiny.
I wanted to be king
of all Norway.
I even challenged
Bjorn Ironside for that title,
and I cheated it
to make it mine.
But now...
I'm not sure I ever really
wanted it after all.
Being king brings
so little pleasure,
so little satisfaction.
Don't you agree,
King Ivar?
I came back here, I...
thought I could
reinvent myself.
-[chuckles]
-Be the person
that I once was.
Be the person
who wanted to rule,
who wanted to do anything
to claim a throne.
But sitting on that throne...
means nothing.
There is an illusion
of power
that induces inside
you a kind of madness.
Isn't that true?
Isn't it true, Ivar?
Admit it!
Yes. Yes.
It's true.
[inaudible]
I'm not sure I like
what I have returned to.
I don't really want
to rule Kattegat.
I think ruling Kattegat
will be boring.
And, in the meantime,
I'm married to a witch,
who I know does not love me
at all.
And the woman that I love,
truly, is dead.
And that may be
my fault, too.
Let's not talk about love.
Well, at least you have
brothers to talk to.
I have no one.
I'm always alone.
No.
Your brother Halfdan is here.
He's listening to us
right now.
So is my father,
my mother,
and my brothers.
Everyone is around us.
Don't you believe that?
[sighs]
Halfdan is gone.
It's a long time ago now.
I killed him, of course.
Do you think
he would come
to visit me?
I hope the gods forgive me.
But I don't think
it's possible.
[Idun speaking Old Norse]
[Idun continues speaking]
[thunder rumbling]
I know who you are.
Idun, the goddess blessed
with eternal youth.
Odin must have
sent you to me.
I am not acting
under orders.
I have watched you
all your life.
Shared your joys
and your pain.
And so I decided
to appear to you,
as you deserve.
[voice trembles]
Will you stay with me?
Only till the dawn.
But the dawn is a long,
long way away.
So weep no more,
sweet Hvitserk.
Weep no more.
[door closes]
[exhales]
[grunts]
[Ragnar] People think that you
are not a threat,
but I know differently.
Out of all of my sons,
it was you I wanted
to bring here,
and it is you
that I believe is
the most important
to the future of our people.
You do not think
like other men.
You are unpredictable.
[breathes heavily]
Anger is a gift!
What is in here is a gift!
[grunts]
[breathing deeply]
[Ragnar] Everyone will always
underestimate you.
You must make them pay for it.
Use your anger intelligently.
And I promise you, my son,
that one day, the whole
world will know
and fear Ivar, the Boneless.
Be ruthless.
[rain pattering]
[sobbing]
[laughing]
[vocalizing]
[continues vocalizing]
-[continues vocalizing]
-[singing in old Norse]
[Othere stops singing]
[indistinct chatter]
[tapping]
[man 1] Give me
my money!
Give me my money!
Give me, give me.
[man 2] You already
have it!
You joker!
Give me my money!
You give me
my money!
You get two, unless--
[man] What did you
do that for?
Hey, you! Cripple!
Queen Ingrid
told us that
in time of peace
we would have no choice
but to fall out
with each other.
It's true.
No doubt that
we'd all like to deny it,
but it will happen.
Unless there is
still something left
for us to do together.
There is,
and this is it.
Please, Ragnar, drink.
Please drink.
He won't feed.
He can't die.
-Of course he can die.
-No!
-It's impossible.
-You're not a god.
You can't save him.
[yells]
This is my fault!
We should never
have left Kattegat!
Why are we
dying here,
in the middle
of nowhere?
In the middle
of the ocean?
It was not
your decision, Ubbe.
The gods have
brought us here. The gods
have decided our fate.
Unfortunately,
Ubbe has lost his faith.
He no longer believes.
Do you, Ubbe?
Ubbe!
Ubbe, please, no!
No!
Ubbe!
Ubbe, no! Stop it!
Don't you understand?
If you behave like this,
if you try to murder
one another,
then we're just like Kjetill
and those we left behind.
We are no different.
What is the point
in trying to find
a new land,
if we behave just
the same as we did
in the old one?
Ubbe, for the love
of the gods.
[thunder cracks]
[indistinct chatter]
My friends,
I have exciting news.
Well, what kind of a king
would I be, if I didn't
bring you exciting news?
[all laughing]
King Bjorn believed that
Kattegat could exist
by trade alone.
It is not true.
Of course it is true
that we have
always been traders.
We have gone
to the ends of the Earth
to trade
with other peoples,
other cultures.
But these,
our Scandinavian
countries, are small.
And we don't have
that much to trade.
Instead, we have
raided far and wide.
[crowd shouting agreement]
And our raids
have been successful.
[crowd] Yes!
We have a presence now
in England, in Ireland,
in Frankia,
and even in Rus!
[crowd] Yes!
We have started
to put down roots
in all these places.
And our influence has
grown out of all
proportion to our size.
Unless we
continue raiding,
continue to win battles,
take territory,
we will soon
lose everything
we have gained so far.
In England,
we have a foothold in York,
in Mercia, and
Northumberland.
And we still
have a settlement
in Wessex,
that Ubbe won for us.
But Wessex
remains powerful,
remains the last
great kingdom of England.
Its king, Alfred,
receives homage
from all Saxon tribes.
And if we leave
his kingdom alone,
then, surely,
he will destroy
our settlements,
and regain
all his lost fiefdoms.
We cannot allow it.
[crowd murmuring]
They tell me that
all our great heroes
are dead.
And perhaps
you believe it.
For it seems to me,
that while our kinsmen
struggle and fight abroad,
all of you have settled
for comfortable lives
here in Kattegat,
living off the fat of the land,
forgetting who you really are,
forgetting that
you're Vikings,
the sons and daughters
of the gods, longing
for Valhalla.
Is it for this
that Ragnar Lothbrok died?
Is it for your easy living,
your temperate days,
that he sacrificed
his life?
I was there
when my father died.
I watched him
wretched in his cage
above a pit of vipers.
And I heard his last words.
He wanted no pity.
He was glad to die.
Laughing, knowing
that soon, he would
sup with the gods.
But he urged his sons,
and he urged you,
his people, to avenge him.
Since his death,
the Christian plague
has spread across the world,
even infecting
our Rus brothers.
But you still claim
to be Vikings.
Then act like Vikings!
Forget about
your comfortable existence.
Come with me
and conquer King Alfred!
and conquer England,
and all of its riches!
Reclaim your birthright.
Be like the gods
and reach for Valhalla!
[all] Valhalla!
Valhalla!
[all] Hail Ivar!
All hail Ivar!
Hail Ivar! Hail Ivar!
[all chanting]
[music playing]